---
title: The Selective Social Attention Task in Children with ASD Results from the Autism Biomarkers Consortium for Clinical Trials (ABC-CT) Feasibility Study 
authors: Frederick Shic, Erin C. Barney, Adam J. Naples, Kelsey J. Dommer, Shou An Chang, Beibin Li, Takumi McAllister, Adham Atyabi, Quan Wang, Raphael Bernier, Geraldine Dawson, James Dziura, Susan Faja, Shafali Spurling Jeste, Michael Murias, Scott P. Johnson, Maura Sabatos-DeVito, Gerhard Helleman, Damla Senturk, Catherine A. Sugar, Sara Jane Webb, James C. McPartland, Katarzyna Chawarska
published: 2023 
citekey: shic2023
journal: Autism research  official journal of the International Society for Autism Research
Paper_type: journalArticle
DOI: https://www.doi.org/10.1002/aur.3026
PdfZoteroLink: zotero://select/library/items/X9VN33Z7 
tags: 
cited_papers: 
citing_papers: 
other_connected_paper: 
read_on: 2025-03-11 13:52
code_repo: 
dataset: 
dg-publish: true
researchgroup: 
relatedApp:
---

## The Selective Social Attention Task in Children with ASD: Results from the Autism Biomarkers Consortium for Clinical Trials (ABC-CT) Feasibility Study

> [!Cite]
> Shic, F., Barney, E. C., Naples, A. J., Dommer, K. J., Chang, S. A., Li, B., McAllister, T., Atyabi, A., Wang, Q., Bernier, R., Dawson, G., Dziura, J., Faja, S., Jeste, S. S., Murias, M., Johnson, S. P., Sabatos-DeVito, M., Helleman, G., Senturk, D., … Chawarska, K. (2023). The Selective Social Attention Task in Children with ASD: Results from the Autism Biomarkers Consortium for Clinical Trials (ABC-CT) Feasibility Study. _Autism Research : Official Journal of the International Society for Autism Research_, _16_(11), 2150–2159. [https://doi.org/10.1002/aur.3026](https://doi.org/10.1002/aur.3026)


>[!md]
> **Year**:: 2023   
> **Citekey**:: shic2023  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Autism research : official journal of the International Society for Autism Research*  
> **Volume**:: 16  
> **Issue**:: 11   
> **Pages**:: 2150-2159  
> **DOI**:: 10.1002/aur.3026    
> **dateAdded**:: 2025-03-11 13:52

> [!LINK] 
> [2023_Shic et al._The Selective Social Attention Task in Children with ASD Results from the Autism Biomarkers Consort.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/ZE7XZBEZ)

> [!Abstract]
>
> The Selective Social Attention (SSA) task is a brief eye-tracking task involving experimental conditions varying along socio-communicative axes. Traditionally the SSA has been used to probe socially-specific attentional patterns in infants and toddlers who develop autism spectrum disorder (ASD). This current work extends these findings to preschool and school-age children., Children four-to-twelve-years-old with ASD (N=23) and a typically-developing comparison group (TD; N=25) completed the SSA task as well as standardized clinical assessments. Linear mixed models examined group and condition effects on two outcome variables: percent of time spent looking at the scene relative to scene presentation time (%Valid), and percent of time looking at the face relative to time spent looking at the scene (%Face). Age and IQ were included as covariates. Outcome variables’ relationships to clinical data were assessed via correlation analysis., The ASD group, compared to the TD group, looked less at the scene and focused less on the actress’ face during the most socially-engaging experimental conditions. Additionally, within the ASD group, %Face negatively correlated with SRS Total T-scores with a particularly strong negative correlation with the Autistic Mannerism subscale T-score., These results highlight the extensibility of the SSA to older children with ASD, including replication of between-group differences previously seen in infants and toddlers, as well as its ability to capture meaningful clinical variation within the autism spectrum across a wide developmental span inclusive of preschool and school-aged children. The properties suggest that the SSA may have broad potential as a biomarker for ASD., Previous work found that an infant’s or toddler’s performance on a simple eye-tracking task was different depending on if they had a diagnosis of ASD or not. This paper shows that the same differences exist in 4-12-year-olds and shows that performance on this task is different for those with higher ratings of autistic traits. This is an important step in being able to use a quick, easy technology like eye tracking to help clinicians identify risk or track possible changes in behavior.
>.
> 


## Notes

```dataview 
TABLE file.name 
FROM "NotesConnectToPapers" 
WHERE contains(file.name, this.citekey)
```



## Figures

