## 2.1 Current State of Research in the Field
> [!tip]- **what to write:**
>
> -Describe how your project relates to the current state of research in your field. Make reference to the most important publications, particularly by other authors. Please define the current stage of maturity for your project

### 2.1.1 Clinical state of research

### Eye-tracking state of research

## 2.2 Innovative Potential

> [!tip]- **what to write:**
>
> - Please describe the unique selling proposition(s) (USP) of your solution to explain what the novelty is and how it differs from other similar solutions. Support your statements with facts and figures to ensure that your description is credible.


### 2.2.1 Economic and Societal Impact

> [!tip]- **what to write:**
>
> - Present a credible vision of your intended innovation and put it in the context of already existing solutions.
> - Elaborate on the expected possible impacts of your planned innovation on society, the market or sustainability. How can your innovation benefit society and/or offer the economy a competitive advantage? Who are the beneficiaries of your innovation? If you are successful, what difference will it make


link between eye movement and brain activity
micro-sacade

For several decades researchers have been recording electrical brain activity associated with eye movements in attempt to understand their neural mechanisms. However, recent advances in eye-tracking technology have allowed researchers to use eye movements as the means of segmenting the ongoing brain activity into episodes relevant to cognitive processes in scene perception, reading, and visual search. https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/systems-neuroscience/articles/10.3389/fnsys.2014.00062/full





| Young Population 12-24 years | Prevalence                  | TOTAL 2023 rounded |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------|
| **Switzerland (1.2 mio.)**  | ASD (0.75%) + ADHD (5%)     | 70,000            |
| **France (10.5 mio.)**      | ASD (1%) + ADHD (5%)        | 600,000           |
| **USA (50.2 mio.)**         | ASD (0.78%) + ADHD (5%)     | 3,000,000         |
| **China (217 mio.)**        | ASD (0.80%) + ADHD (5%)     | 12,000,000        |
| **WW (less CH, FR, USA, CN) (920 mio.)** | ASD (1%) + ADHD (5%) | 55,000,000       |
| **TOTAL**                   |                             | **70,000,000**    |




### 2.2.2 Sustainability

> [!tip]- **what to write:**
>
> - Relevance: What is your project trying to achieve in terms of sustainable development?
> - Challenges: What challenges do you expect to be the most significant and urgent ones for the SDGs linked to your project?
> - Contribution: How will your project contribute to tackle the identified challenge(s)?

### 2.2.3 Intellectual Property (IP) Situation
> [!tip]- **what to write:**
>
> - Present an overview of the current situation concerning the intellectual property (e.g. existing patents, copyrights, competitors)

competitors
patents
eye-tracking

## 2.3 Own Achievements in the Field
> [!tip]- **what to write:**
>
> - Present your achievements in the relevant field; describe the results obtained so far as well as the relevance of these preliminary undertakings for your project. Make reference to your most important publications, patents, and/or other achievements in the field.